# Era 1 - Hunter-gatherers

## General idea

Early-to-middle Stone Age, including very earlierst settlements, up to invention of agriculture.

## Real-life inspirations

### Technological progress

Controlled fire - heating, cooking, scaring wild animals

Simple stone and wooden tools - hand-axes and spears; fishhooks; bow and arrow; bone needles; harpoons

### Diet

Gathered plants (tubers, grasses, fruit, seeds and nuts)
Fish and other aquatical lifeforms (e.g. shellfish)
Meat (after invention of spear, this started including bigger animals)

### Culture and society

Burial
Ornamental object creation
Early division of labor

### Construction

Temporary and semi-permanent shelters (in caves and protective rock formations; hand-made short-term open-air settlements)
Wood, rock and bone-made huts

## Game design considerations

### Population

    Gatherers provide food security via a slow but steady trickle of food. Hunters can produce much bigger quantities of food, but only via a hunt that needs to be initiated by the player.

    To increase population, an amount of food must be expended, and enough food security must be in place. If there is not enough continuous food production, population can not be increased. If for some reason the continuous production falls below the level necessary to provide food security for the entire population, some sheep will leave (starting with those that do not produce food security).

    Some food security is provided by the "pasture" building that represents sheep grazing land that is the original place where the tribe started.

    Temporary shelters, like tents, are the main structures in this era. Early permanent or semi-permanent structures will show up late in this era.

### Knowledge

    Folklore is the mechanics used. Folklore is slowly generated by every sheep, but the cap is very low on its own. To increase it, player must convert sheep into elders, who produce the folklore a little faster, and more importantly, provide a mechanism to increase the cap. This represents the knowledge of the tribe being passed from generation to generation by the tribe elders.

    A sheep can be converted to elder only when the folklore is capped (since the tribe would otherwise have no use for the next elder). This consumes an amount of folklore, and increases the cap. The elders are the first to go when the food becomes scarce, though.

### Culture

    Some ideas: cave paintings, early music and dance.

    Culture and religion are going to tie into legacy mechanics, that are going to get introduced later on.

### Religion

    Some ideas: shamans, animism, burial. Closely connected to culture.

### Warfare

    In this early era, there is no warfare, as the territory is effectively unlimited for the tribes. The role of warfare and adventure is taken up by the hunting.

## Items to implement

Gatherers and their improvements (ideas about collecting new types of food, slowly increasing the production of the gatherers).

Elders, that might need inventing (food gatherers will provide a slow trickle of folklore for that). They won't get any upgrades, at least until writing.

Hunters, which will need inventing, as well as different hunts (starting from small game, through fishing expeditions and bigger game).

Tool makers, which can be invented somewhat later, and who will produce the tools necessary for advanced hunts as well as higher-level inventions.

Basic shelters, that will slightly increase the amount of stuff that can be stored (or offer some other marginal benefit)?
