# Eras

## Hunther-gatherer era

Early Stone Age, including very earlierst settlements, up to invention of agriculture.

* Population

    Gatherers provide food security via a slow but steady trickle of food. Hunters can produce much bigger quantities of food, but only via a hunt that needs to be initiated by the player.

    To increase population, an amount of food must be expended, and enough food security must be in place. If there is not enough continuous food production, population can not be increased. If for some reason the continuous production falls below the level necessary to provide food security for the entire population, some sheep will leave (starting with those that do not produce food security).

    Some food security is provided by the "pasture" building that represents sheep grazing land that is the original place where the tribe started.

* Knowledge

    Folklore is the mechanics used. Folklore is slowly generated by every sheep, but the cap is very low on its own. To increase it, player must convert sheep into elders, who produce the folklore a little faster, and more importantly, provide a mechanism to increase the cap. This represents the knowledge of the tribe being passed from generation to generation by the tribe elders.

    A sheep can be converted to elder only when the folklore is capped (since the tribe would otherwise have no use for the next elder). This consumes an amount of folklore, and increases the cap. The elders are the first to go when the food becomes scarce, though.

* Culture

    Some ideas: cave paintings, early music and dance.

* Religion

    Some ideas: shamans, animism, burial. Closely connected to culture.

* Warfare

    In this early era, there is no warfare, as the territory is effectively unlimited for the tribes.

## Prehistoric agricultural era

  Late Stone Age up to early Bronze Age; agriculture, settlements, early government, up to invention of writing.

## Archaic era

  Writing and philosophy, palace economy, Bronze Age. Up to ~bronze age collapse?
